---
title: "Yellow Line"
date: 2024-07-01
categories: Khaake
---

13 January 2020, Monday  

It was just another Monday morning for me- getting up late, getting ready for work in a rush, leaving the house in a hurry, forgetting something and the come running back for it and finally missing the 8:03 metro. Classic. I texted the group to see if anyone was riding in the next metro but everyone had left, except for Priya. She didn't respond to the text and that could could only mean two things - she hasn't left her home yet or she has again forgotten her phone at home again. Classic.  

The metro was as full as you could have imagined. I was already regretting not going to bed on time last night. I could have had that self pity session on the metro itself and no one would have noticed. Everyone looked abysmal anyways. One thing on a crowded metro is that you don't have enough space to stand but the two things that irk me are the facts that no matter how well you dress up, your clothes will be wrinkled and your shoes would be stamped upon. The other is the unsubscribed streaming of someone's private chat, movie or something else. However hard you may try there's always one thing or the other poking in your face. Real horrors.  

I breathed a sigh of relief at Sikanderpur when I got of the ride. There was some sparkle on my shoulders, probably from the chooda of the newly wed standing beside me. I had heard it was auspicious if part of a newly wed's bangles fell on your head on the wedding day. No idea if some loose glitter on a lousy Monday morning would count. That's life I guess. Although my relief was short lived as on the time table display I saw that I had only 3 minutes to run across the DMRC and rapid metro bridge and catch the other metro. Long story short I MADE IT. and that too got in the 3rd coach that'll stop right in front of the stair case on the metro station.  

It was after Moulsary avenue that I saw her coming into my coach. It had been over a month since I last saw her. A lot had changed. Her spectacles were now round like Harry Potter's. Hair colour had changed a bit but I would still think that she is from west Delhi. The only thing that hadn't changed was the tattoo on her forearm. It took me weeks to read it as I always saw it upside down. Took me seconds to realise that there was a typo. And that had been her calling ever since.  

Well today was the day. Today I would definitely make a move and get the introductions going. How hard could it be. Apart from the fact that it was a Monday morning, I was technically in Haryana and had been caught awkwardly gazing at her in the past. Nothing much. As the train was entering the station, I started to prepare myself for impact. Went up to the door and stood beside her, took my earphones out and made eye contact. She looked at me, removed the right ear-piece and have the most confused and disgusted look possible. My phone rang at the same very moment. I answered it. The door opened and she lept out of the coach and broke into a small run. TL;DR I not only spooked her but also had to buy breakfast for the team. Some creative reinforcement that our team had come up to ensure people were on time. Thoroughly embarrassed I exited the metro station and placed order for some poha and chhole kulcha.  

15 February 2020, Saturday  

Shakespeare had once said "to be or not to be, that is the question". Every Saturday I face a similar question "to go out or not go out". Like any other single person living alone in this city I too face the dilemma of either going out and socializing or staying in and just laze around. Saturday is the prodigal son of the week. The day of redemption, the exalted one. While most of Sunday is spent in finishing chores and worrying about Monday, Saturday is meant to get up late and be the king for the day. One can go shopping, or to movies, meet one set of friends over brunch and another set in the pub. One can also do nothing and stay home in comfortable PJs, carelessly stream something to watch, order food and then doze of while the show keeps on playing. Saturday can be anything. Endless opportunities wrapped in 24 hours.  

I was fighting this dilemma while making myself coffee when I recieved a text. An old friend wanted to meet. Perfect. It's so easy when life itself decides for you. 12:30 brunch at Ambience mall. Ordered breakfast and then took all the time to get ready.  

At 12:45 I am informed that my friend's partner is still not over valentine's day's high. No literally. They had to be taken to the hospital as they were not responding. To everyone who says that love is the most powerful drug, please note that a mixture of vodka, whiskey and a shitload of rum is right next to it.  

I checked my options. I can go back and have type 2 Saturday or I can try to have fun on my own. There was no way in which I wouldn't have felt like a loser. Walking in the sweet scented altar of capitalism my eyes fell upon an advertisement. I had found my saviour in, I still don't believe I thought so, Kartik Aryan and Sara Ali Khan. Love Aaj Kal 3 had released yesterday, on valentine's day and after my bitter experiences of watching Gully boy's valentine's day release I had sworn not to step into a theater on that damned day. Through out Gully boy I was confused which movie to watch, the one the 70" screen or the one happening right beside me. Just to help you guys there was no correct answer. Anyways I ran to the box office to get tickets. There was a show at 01:15 but drum roll no tickets. To this day I am not sure why did that movie went housefull. On my 3rd attempt of persuading the teller to see if something was possible, he left his seat and closed the window. The day kept getting better. I was about to leave when I felt a hand on my shoulder.  

"Sir you can't tell anyone that I told you this but that person has extra tickets. You can go and talk to them, just leave my counter alone."  

He was so fed up with me that he didn't even wait for me to thank him and walked back to his window. Anyhow a door had opened up. I walked to that person, who all this time was having an animated conversation with someone over the phone. As I walked closer her golden, below the waist hair became more prominent. The hand bag was different but the misspelt tattoo was still the same. The metro stranger had returned, and in what way !  

"Hello" I said from behind.  

In my excitement (not for the movie tickets) I had walked so close to her that when she turned to answer she practically bumped into me. Stalker and now a creep. Way to go.  

"I couldn't help but over hearing that you have extra tickets for the movie" I said while stepping back.  

"They are not extra" came a curt reply as she stormed off in the other direction, still on the phone.  

I looked at the teller and could see his smirk. Loser Saturday it is.  

As I was about to leave I got a text from my friend that things were great at their end and I should expect them to arrive in the next two hours. There were a lot of apologies and requests on the call. It looked as if I wasn't even allowed to have a miserable time peacefully. Watching the movie was out of question. It had all come down to the most dreadful thing for an introvert like me. Spend time alone in a crowded place. It is one thing to spend time with someone in mall, and it's an entirely different thing to roll yourself in a ball and spend time on your own in private. But to sil alone, in a crowded mall is a nightmare. You can do it at a Starbucks if you have a book (regular or MacBook) with you. It is acceptable, even if you don't turn a page or type a letter, no one will bat an eye. Remove the accessories and you are the desperate loner everyone tries to avoid. Considering everything, I thought that there was only one place in this capitalistic paradise that can take me in without judging. A book shop. I remembered there was one on somewhere and in no time I had started walking towards it.  

In my head I was thinking about bookstores and how convenient are they for people like us. I can even talk to the staff there and not be left embarrassed. With every steps the light at the end of this gloomy tunnel kept on getting brighter. And then it stopped. The bookstore was closed for maintenance. As my high school maths teacher used to say, I was back at square one. I had started to laugh at my own stupid thinking that this day would get any better. Starbucks and eternal embarassment it is.  

I don't consider Starbucks a coffee place given the fact there menu resembles that of a juice bar more than a cafe. I like to think places like Blue Tokai are good coffee places but then Starbucks has a reliably clean washroom that makes it a better choice. Introvertedness and dysfunctional OCDs have been the pillars of my personality. Anyhow I went in, ordered a double shot espresso, gave the cashier my name and card and went back to have a seat. This seat would now be the pit on which I would be roasted alive by people's judgemental eyes.  

My random train of thoughts was derailed by the barista's crude murder of my name. The humiliation had begun and on the counter I saw the roast master herself. Our orders were made one after the other and she was there to collect hers. It was as awkward as it was on the metro but atleast today I got to know her name. Simran. I took this as a small victory and moved back to my chair.  

" You'll have to buy both of them"  

She was standing in front of me, with the tickets in her hand.  

"Hey" I said clumsily in an attempt to not to spill coffee from my mouth while speaking.  

"Do you want them? It's just past 5 minutes, if you hurry you can still see Mukesh alive and coughing"  

I was pretty sure that this was meant to be a joke but the way she had said it I decided to stay silent.  

"Thanks but change of plans, I am meeting some friends in some time so had to cancel the movie plan" for some reason I had stood up from my chair while talking to her. Strange.  

When Zakir Khan had said that pretty girls aren't used to hear "no" he was stating a well established and researched fact and by that principal I could see Simran too having a computational breakdown.  

"Anyway if you would like, you can sit here and have your coffee" I said in the most nonchalant way as possible while sitting down. As expected she went away but to my surprise came back with her cup of coffee.  

The next two hours went past like a breeze. Simran was working as a data analyst in a call centre, was from west Delhi and had knew about the typo on her tattoo. A new update was she had just broken up with her boyfriend, who was AWOL yesterday and had stood her up today as well. Also, the tattoo was his decision. We talked about nearly everything under the sun. I clarified that I was curious about the tattoo and apologised if I had made her uncomfortable; turns out I had not. Go super stealthy Stalker skills.  

Couple of hours and couple of more Starbucks "drinks" later when she left I had this happy feeling in my chest that was unexplainable. My friends had joined me and I told them all about my day.  

"I wish I was there to see her !" My friend said with a sigh "atleast show her WhatsApp DP!"  

I had done it again, threw myself in a mine field of remorse and agony. How foolish I was to even think that I could turn this loser Saturday into awesome Saturday.  

Although it was about to be a week, we had hardly spoken. Yes we would give each other the looks every now and then and I swear I saw a feeble smile as well on Thursday but it wasn’t until the end of the week that I broke the silence. Monday I was on the wretched weekly status stand up call which I literally took standing up in the metro, Tuesday she wasn’t on the train, Wednesday I had felt particularly bloated to go and talk to her, Thursday I thought I had seen a feeble smile and waited for her to talk but instead she hopped off and walked straight away. So on Friday l had positioned myself near the gate itself and had kept my eyes trained on an imaginary point on the door’s mirror. I had not moved a muscle until I felt her standing beside me and got serenaded by her flowery and citrusy perfume. Show time.  